# Shader Library

All *GLSL* code should go here.  
All shader files have their own [*include guard*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Include_guard) macro.  
*Include guards* are used instead of the *#pragma once* preprocessor directive to allow user code to override the Malt built-in code when needed.

Whenever it makes sense, functions should be implemented in a pipeline/renderer agnostic way.  
Ideally it should be possible to copy-paste *Malt* functions into any other render engine with *GLSL* support.

[Common.glsl](Common.glsl) contains all the code assumed to be shared by all pipelines, including the vertex attributes layout, the *COMMON_UNIFORMS* block and the uniform blocks needed for batch rendering.

The [Common](Common) folder contains 3d math and rendering utility functions.

[Intellisense](Intellisense) is autogenerated from a script ([build_intellisense_glsl.py](../../scripts/build_intellisense_glsl.py)) and enables *GLSL* autocompletion to work through *C++* autocompletion providers. It's just for code editors and has no use at runtime.

[Lighting](Lighting) contains a basic lighting and shadow mapping implementation and it's intended to be extended by custom pipelines.

[Shading](Shading) has an extensive collection of basic building blocks for implementing *BRDFs*.

[Filters](Filters) is for texture processing functions, from *Blur* to *AO*.  
Standalone texture processing and other types of shaders that wouldn't benefit from a library-like interface are located in [Passes](Passes)

Any pipeline specific code should go inside their own folder in [Pipelines](Pipelines).
