# Malt

Malt is a highly customizable rendering framework written in Python and OpenGL.<br>

Malt serves as the backbone of BEER, the BlenderNPR render engine.<br>
https://blendernpr.org/beer/ <br>
Malt allows to write completely custom render pipelines while providing a flexible library of render utilities.<br>

BlenderMalt is a Blender addon that integrates Malt into Blender, exposing a minimal user interface suitable for a code-centric workflow.<br>
BlenderMalt takes care of exposing the UI for your rendering pipeline and manages all the render data loading and synchronization.

You can find an up to date list of planned features and their current state in [this Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1J6IaG7lsS1EI8kPeyJa9t_ycMSsHSYdyjfDTd953CAI/edit?usp=sharing).

## Download

*(Malt is still in early development state)*

BlenderMalt is a normal Blender addon and runs on any recent Blender version, but for simplicity it's distributed preinstalled with Blender.
 
- Go to [the latest *Release* page](https://github.com/blendernpr/BEER/releases/tag/v1-beta).
- Download the *Blender* version that matches your OS.
  - *(Optional)* Download the *Shader Examples* too.
- Unzip the folder and open Blender. Go to *Preferences > Addons*, search for *BlenderMalt* on the addons list and *enable it*.

To test the renderer go to *Scene Settings* and *change the renderer to Malt*. Create a *Sunlight* and add a new object with a *new material*. Inside the material settings *set the Shader Path* to one of the files from the *Shader Examples*.

## Bug Reports

If you need help or find a bug you can [open a new issue](https://github.com/BlenderNPR/BEER/issues).

**For bug reports include**:
- A ***System Info* report** generated by Blender *(Help > Save System Info)*.
- A **full copy** of the ***System Console* contents** *(Window > Toggle System Console)*.
- A **.blend file** and a **list of steps** to reproduce the error.

## Manual Installation

To install BlenderMalt manually: 
- Go to [the latest Release page](https://github.com/blendernpr/BEER/releases/tag/v1-beta).
- Download the *BlenderMalt* version that matches your OS.
  - *(Optional)* Download the *Shader Examples* too.
- Open Blender. Go to *Preferences > Addons*, click on the *Install...* button and select *BlenderMalt.zip* from your downloads.
- Search for *BlenderMalt* on the addons list and *enable it*.<br>
  - Unless you use a portable (ZIP version) of Blender, **you will have to run Blender with administrator privileges for a correct installation**.
  - **Blender will freeze for a few seconds** while it downloads the addon dependencies.
  - If you want to see the installation process you can click on *Window > Toggle System Console* before enabling the addon.
- **Restart Blender**. (!!!)(This step is not optional)


