# Getting Started

> This documentation is aimed at artists, if you are a programmer you may want to [start here](https://github.com/bnpr/BEER) instead.

## What is Malt?

Malt is a fully customizable real-time rendering framework for animation and illustration.
It's aimed at advanced users and technical artists who want more control over their workflow and/or their art style, with special care put into the needs of stylized non photorealistic rendering.

### Features

- **Free and Open Source**. MIT License.
- **Real Time Rendering**.
- **100% customizable *Python* Render Pipelines**.
- **Complete *Blender* integration**.
- **Code as a First Class Citizen**
    - Automatic reloading.
    - *VSCode* integration, including *GLSL* autocompletion.
    - Automatic UI for *Shader* and *Pipeline* parameters.
- **Built-in Pipeline for Stylized Non Photorealistic Rendering**.

## Current State

Malt development began on June 2020 and it's still in beta state.
It's quite complete feature wise, but still unstable and backwards compatibility is not yet warranteed.

Malt is software agnostic, but Blender is the only integration planned right now.

## Requirements

- OpenGL 4.1 support.
- Latest Blender release.

> A dedicated Nvidia or AMD graphics card is highly recomended.  
> Intel cards are likely to cause problems and F12 rendering doesn't work with them.

## Install
 
- Go to [the latest Release page](https://github.com/blendernpr/BEER/releases/tag/v1-beta).
- Download the *BlenderMalt* version that matches your OS and the *Shader Examples*.
- Open Blender. Go to *Preferences > Addons*, click on the *Install...* button and select *BlenderMalt.zip* from your downloads. *(It will take a few seconds)*
- Tick the box in the *BlenderMalt* panel to enable it.

#### Uninstall

- Untick the box in *Preferences > Addons > BlenderMalt* to disable the addon.
- Restart *Blender*.
- Go back to *Preferences > Addons > BlenderMalt*, expand the panel and click the *Remove* button.

## First steps

- Go to *Scene Settings* and change the renderer to *Malt*.
- Create a *Sunlight* and add a new *Object* with a new *Material*.
- Inside the *Material* settings set the *Shader Source* to one of the files from the *Shader Examples*.

For better viewport performance, you may want to lower the rendering quality:
- Go to *Scene Settings > Malt Settings*.
- Set *Transparency Layers* to **1**.
- Lower the *ShadowMaps* resolution to **1024** or even **512**.
- Make sure *Line Width Max* is not higher than **10**.

To learn how to make your own materials in *Malt*, take a look at the [From Nodes To Code](From-Nodes-To-Code/From-Nodes-To-Code) tutorial.

Please, consider filling this [short survery](https://forms.gle/zvEazGd3SPgWEQdj9) after testing.

## Bug Reports

If you need help or find a bug you can [open a new issue](https://github.com/BlenderNPR/BEER/issues).

**For bug reports include**:
- A ***System Info* report** generated by Blender *(Help > Save System Info)*.
- A **full copy** of the ***System Console* contents** *(Window > Toggle System Console)*.
- A **.blend file** and a **list of steps** to reproduce the error.


